# Environments

Application environments are an important part of the context in which an applications run.

Environmental variables store data and configurations that pertains to the phase of the application's development. Each environment is configured to support a certain usage of the application.

Typical application environments:

- **development** - environment where an app or new features are created and run locally
- **test** - environment where code and UI is tested for functionality and performance
- **production** - environment for complete and tested code to be hosted online for clients to use

Development is the default environment, and is what we are in when we run the app locally.

Deploying an app often entails deploying into a production environment. By production, we mean the public, published version of our site. This published version of the app would have important data generated by user activity, such as user accounts and user-submitted data.

Each environment has a different set of configurations, things that vary depending on how we're running or using our app. We could be testing, developing, or deploying our apps. Configuration settings often include...

- the name of the database
- the username/password to connect to the database
- API authentication keys (e.g. to connect to twitter API)
- whether or not to reload code on each request (for debugging vs performance)
- where to save log information (error logs, etc)

## 12 Factor

12 Factor is a set of strong guidelines designed by Heroku for building apps that deploy and scale more easily and predictably. Spend 10 minutes reading through [this explanation of what characteristics a 12 Factor app has](http://www.clearlytech.com/2014/01/04/12-factor-apps-plain-english/).